This project is aimed to perform decomposition and address correlation issues using ARIMA on the datasets to prepare the data for producing time series forecasts in R programming and making inferences about the forecasted results. The project engages to use “ffp2” package that includes all the functions required for forecasting and graphical analysis. 

This report explains the process and subsequent findings derived from decomposition, removal of seasonality and addressing the problem of auto correlation using ARIMA on Retail and Food Service Sales data [1] (US Census Bureau, 2019). The sales dataset provides the retail and food service sales for US in “million dollars” from January 2010 to April 2019. The data is non stationary and seasonal which will be adjusted using R programming to predict the sales for next two years.
This dataset also requires to be adjusted for inflation over the last nine years. For this, purpose we have used Consumer Price Index data [2] (Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2019) to deflate and convert the sales number to dollar value in April 2019. This adjustment will remove the inflation factor and forecast the real sales based on the dollar value in April 2019. 

The real sales data have been used for decomposition and ARIMA modelling. This report outlines and describes the codes used for running our analysis, their subsequent outputs and graphical representation of time series dataset with our synopsis and interpretation of the results derived in the process. 

From this project, I have learnt that decomposition of a time series data is very important for initiating the modelling process. Understanding the trend, seasonality and variations in the random term helps in selecting the right model for the data. As in this case, knowing that data is autocorrelated, non-stationary and seasonal helped in determining that ARIMA could be one of the suitable models for this type of data. And as the result suggests, it performed well with these causalities in the data by developing a model that addressed the issue of autocorrelation while taking into account the trend and seasonality of the model. auto.arima function of R helped us in analyzing various moving average and lag order for the model while selecting the best model that has lowest AIC, BIC, RMSE, MAPE and other model accuracy parameters. The model of order (0,1,1) (2,1,1) [12] had a MAE of 4241.32 suggesting that our forecast might have an error of 4241.32 million dollars in the retail sales. MAPE for our model is 1.02% which means that our forecasts are 98.8% accurate considering the low and high value of our confidence interval.


REFERENCES
1.	US  Census Bureau, Retail Trade and Food Services Sales: U.S. Total , 2019, Retrieved from: https://www.census.gov/econ/currentdata/dbsearch?program=MRTS&startYear=2010&endYear=2019&categories=44X72&dataType=SM&geoLevel=US&notAdjusted=1&submit=GET+DATA&releaseScheduleId=
2.	Bureau of Labor Statistics, CPI-All Urban Consumers (Current Series), 2019, Retrieved from: https://data.bls.gov/pdq/SurveyOutputServlet
